.TH feel 1L "April, 1994"
.SH NAME
feel \- EuLisp interpreter 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B feel 
[-heap \fIn\fR] [-stack-space \fIn\fR] [-stack-size \fIn\fR] 
[-boot \fIimage\fR] [-noimage] 
[-sysv] [-procs \fIn\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Feel is the reference implementation of the EuLisp language. 
.LP
EuLisp is a single-valued dialect of Lisp with the following
features: 
.LP
An integrated object system (Telos) with a defined meta-object
protocol to enable reflective programming.
.LP
A module system.
.LP
A simple light-weight process mechanism.
.LP
Feel is intended to conform to the EuLisp definition. The present
version is close in many respects, but there are still numerous minor
discrepancies.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-heap " n
Size of heap to use (in megabytes if \fIn\fR<50, else bytes). Defaults to 4Mb.
.TP
.BI "-stack-space " size
Amount of storage to allocate for stacks and static data (in megabytes 
if \fIn\fR<50, else bytes). This defaults to 1 Mb, but should be more for 
programs that use threads.
.TP
.BI "-stack-size " size
The size of the interpreter thread stack (in kilobytes if \fIn\fR<1000, 
else bytes). This defaults to 96Kb. It should not be necessary to 
change this unless your program stops with a 'stack overflowing' message. 
Beware that an infinite non-tail recursion problem may also trigger this 
message.
.TP
.BI "-boot " image
Load the bytecode image \fIimage\fR
.TP
.BI "-noimage "
Do not load a bytecode image at all
.TP
.BI "-sysv "
Start Feel in System V configuration (if available)
.TP
.BI "-procs " n
Start up using \fIn\fR processors (works in System V configuration only)
.PP

.SH GETTING STARTED
By default the system initially loads the user module, which imports
eulisp0, and therefore contains most of the usual lisp functions.

(!> \fImymodule\fR) will enter the module \fImymodule\fR, loading it
if necessary from the file \fImymodule\fR.em.  All bindings in that
module then become available.

(!>> \fImymodule\fR) is the same as !>, except that it always loads the
module from disk.

In the error handler:
.br
!exit exits the error handler
.br
!b gives a backtrace
.br
!q gives a quick backtrace

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP FEEL_PATH
Where Feel is installed -- defaults to ${HOME}/Feel
.IP FEEL_LOAD_PATH
Where to find module files (.em) when loading -- defaults to .:${FEEL_PATH}/Boot:${FEEL_PATH}/Modules
.IP FEEL_BOOT_PATH
Where to find bytecode image files (.ebc, .est) when booting -- defaults to .:${FEEL_PATH}/Images
.IP FEEL_START_MODULE
Which module to load initially -- defaults to user

.LP
.SH FILES
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/bin/feel
The Feel startup script
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/Boot 
Directory containing kernel modules
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/Modules 
Directory containing startup and example modules
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/Images    
Directory containing bytecode images
.IP ${HOME}/.feelrc
User's initial startup file
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP feelc
The Feel bytecode compiler
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/Man/feel.dvi
The Feel manual
.IP ${FEEL_PATH}/Man/eulisp.dvi
The EuLisp definition 

.SH AUTHOR
Peter A Broadbery, plus some others who would prefer to remain
anonymous, including Keith Playford, Julian Padget, Russell Bradford,
John ffitch and Duncan Batey.

.SH BUGS
Almost certainly. Mail to eubug@maths.bath.ac.uk if you find anything
really nasty.
